.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_url 3 "6 Aug 2018" "libcurl" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_url - parse a URL and create a CURLURL handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>

.nf
CURLUcode curl_url(char *url,
                   CURLURL **urlhandle,
                   unsigned int flags)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a pointer to a zero terminated string to the \fIurl\fP parameter. The
string must point to a correctly formatted "RFC 3986+" URL or be a NULL
pointer.

Pass a pointer to \fICURLURL *\fP handle in the second parameter and set the
desired feature bits in the \fIflags\fP bitmask.

This function will then allocate and make the \fIurlhandle\fP argument point
to a fresh handle holding the details of the parsed URL. If a NULL pointer was
passed instead of URL, the details of the URL can be subsequently filled in
with calls to the \fIcurl_url_set(3)\fP function.

Extract individual parts from the parsed URL with the \fIcurl_url_get(3)\fP
function.

The returned handle must be cleaned up with \fIcurl_url_cleanup(3)\fP when the
application is done with it.
.SH FLAGS
The flags argument is zero, one or more bits set in a bitmask.
.IP CURLURL_VERIFY_ONLY
With this bit set, \fIcurl_url(3)\fP doesn't create nor return any handle in
the second argument, it will only syntax-check the given URL and return
OK/fail depending on that.
.IP CURLURL_DEFAULT_SCHEME
If set, \fIcurl_url(3)\fP allows the "URL" to be specified without a scheme
part and it will instead behave as if the default scheme was used. The default
scheme is "https". Without this bit set, a URL without the scheme part will be
considered a syntax error.
.IP CURLURL_NON_SUPPORT_SCHEME
If set, \fIcurl_url(3)\fP allows URL schemes that matches syntactically even
if they are not supported by this instance of libcurl. If not set, URLs with a
non-support scheme will get \fICURLURLE_UNSUPPORTED_SCHEME\fP returned.
.IP CURLURL_PATH_AS_IS
If set, it prevents \fIcurl_url(3)\fP from merging and normalizing sequences
of "../" and "./" in the path part, as it will otherwise do.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a CURLUcode error value, which is CURLURLE_OK (0) if everything went
fine.

If this function returns an error, no CURLURL handle is returned.
.SH "URL SYNTAX"
This function understands and parses URLs exactly like libcurl does internally
when told to transfer a URL.

It mostly follows the RFC 3986 specification, with some minor alternations
where adjustments have been made to better understand URLs that popular
browsers accept.

By default, this function will only accept URLs that uses a scheme that has
built-in support in libcurl.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  CURLUcode rc;
  CURLURL *url;
  rc = curl_url("https://example.com", &url, 0);
  if(!rc) {
    char *scheme;
    rc = curl_url_get(url, CURLUPART_SCHEME, &scheme, 0);
    if(!rc) {
      printf("the scheme is %s\n", scheme);
      curl_free(scheme);
    }
    curl_url_cleanup(url);
  }
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_url_cleanup "(3), " curl_url_get "(3), " curl_url_set "(3), "
.BR curl_url_dup "(3), "
