.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2018, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.TH curl_url_set 3 "6 Aug 2018" "libcurl" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_url_set - set a part from a URL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>

CURLUcode curl_url_set(CURLURL *url,
                       CURLUPart what,
                       char *part,
                       unsigned int flags)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Given the \fIurl\fP handle of an already parsed URL, this function lets the
user set/update individual pieces of it.

The \fIwhat\fP argument should be the particular CURLUPart to set or change
and \fIpart\fP points to a zero terminated string with the new contents for
that URL part.

The \fIflags\fP argument is a bitmask with individual features.
.SH CURLUPART_URL
As a special feature, instead of setting individual components, this function
also allows the full URL to be replaced. If the handle already is populated
with a URL, the new URL can be relative to the previous.

When successfully setting a new URL, relative or absolute, the handle contents
will be replaced with the information of the newly set URL.
.SH FLAGS
The flags argument is zero, one or more bits set in a bitmask.
.IP TODO
.IP TODO
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a CURLUcode error value, which is CURLURLE_OK (0) if everything went
fine.

If this function returns an error, no URL part is returned.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  CURLUcode rc;
  CURLURL *url;
  rc = curl_url("https://example.com", &url, 0);
  if(!rc) {
    char *scheme;
    /* change it to an FTP URL */
    rc = curl_url_set(url, CURLUPART_SCHEME, "ftp", 0);
    curl_url_cleanup(url);
  }
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_url_cleanup "(3), " curl_url "(3), " curl_url_get "(3), "
.BR curl_url_dup "(3), "
